= Redis-Dump v0.1 ALPHA

<i>Backup and restore your Redis data to and from JSON.</i>

<b>NOTE: This is alpha software. DO NOT RELY ON IT FOR PRECIOUS THINGS!!</b>

<b>ALSO: This is an unofficial tool.</b>


== Usage

There are two executables: <tt>redis-dump</tt> and <tt>redis-load</tt>. 

    $ redis-dump 
    $ redis-dump -u 127.0.0.1:6371 > db_full.json
    $ redis-dump -u 127.0.0.1:6371 -d 15 > db_db15.json
    
    $ < db_full.json redis-load 
    $ < db_db15.json redis-load -d 15
    
== Output format

All redis datatypes are output to a simple JSON object. All objects have the following 5 fields:

* db (Integer)
* key (String)
* ttl (Integer): The amount of time in seconds that the key will live . If no expire is set, it's -1. 
* type (String), one of: string, list, set, zset, hash, none. 
* value (String): A JSON-encoded string. For keys of type list, set, zset, and hash, the data is given a specific structure (see below). 

Here are examples of each datatype:

    {"db":0,"key":"hashkey","ttl":-1,"type":"hash","value":{"field_a":"value_a","field_b":"value_b","field_c":"value_c"},"size":42}
    {"db":0,"key":"listkey","ttl":-1,"type":"list","value":["value_0","value_1","value_2","value_0","value_1","value_2"],"size":42}
    {"db":0,"key":"setkey","ttl":-1,"type":"set","value":["value_2","value_0","value_1","value_3"],"size":28}
    {"db":0,"key":"zsetkey","ttl":-1,"type":"zset","value":[["value_0","100"],["value_1","100"],["value_2","200"],["value_3","300"],["value_4","400"]],"size":50}
    {"db":0,"key":"stringkey","ttl":79,"type":"string","value":"stringvalue","size":11}

=== Important note about TTLs

One of the purposes of redis-dump is the ability to restore the database to a known state. When you restore a redis database from a redis-dump file, <em>the expires are reset to their values at the time the dump was created</em>. This is different from restoring from Redis' native .rdb or .aof files (expires are stored relative to the actual time they were set). 


== Installation

One of:

    $ gem install redis-dump
    
    
== More Info

* Codes[http://github.com/delano/redis-dump]
* Docs[http://goldensword.ca/redis-dump/]


== Credits

* delano[http://github.com/delano]


== Thanks

* antirez and the funky redis bunch!


